https://www.readanybook.com/series-online/Alices-Adventures-in-Wonderland READ ONLINE Alice's Adventures in Wonderland series for free. PDF books reading at Read-Any-Book.com. Toggle navigation Search Like site? Tweet Add book Sign In Sign in Remember Me New here ? Join Us Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll series Ads Alice's Adventures In Wonderland By Lewis Carroll Series 5.5 Mb size Download book Read book Alice is on the river bank with her sister, suddenly she sees a White Rabbit hurrying, holding a pocket watch in the paw. She follows him down the rabbit hole and falls into a hall with many locked doors. She finds the key from a small 15-inch door, but she can't get into it because of her growth. Alice discovers various items that increase and decrease her. Crying, she notices the Rabbit, which dropped the fan and gloves. Waving a fan, she decreases and falls into the sea of her own tears. Alice meets a mouse, and a variety of birds and plays the "running in a circle" in order to dry herself. The rabbit asks Alice to find his stuff and sends her to his house. Alice drinks a strange liquid from a bottle and grows back again. Rabbit, not realizing what was happening, sends the Bill lizard through the chimney, but Alice pushes him back. The stones, which they throws in her are turning in pies; she eat's them, so now she is reduced again and runs away from home. She meets a Caterpillar in search of the garden. She advises her to take a bite of the mushroom to regain her normal growth. A variety of metamorphoses is happening to Alice: she's missing shoulders, then pulled the neck. Finally she is reduced to 9 inches and see a house. After talking with the Frog and entering the building, Alice finds the Cheshire Cat, the Cook and the Duchess rocking the baby. Taking the child out of the house, and the Duchess said she was going to go on croquet. However, the baby turns into a pig, and she has to leave him. Alice falls for the Mad tea party, where she tries to unravel the mysteries. Offended by the rudeness of the owners, Alice leaves. Entering the door in one of the trees, she finally goes to the garden. Alice discovered that the Duchess was sentenced to death. All the guests are starting to play croquet where the mallets are flamingos and the balls hedgehogs. Then the main character with a Griffon are hurry on the court. There is a judge of the Knave of hearts who stole seven tarts from the Queen, and preside is the red King himself. The last witness is Alice, who suddenly began to grow again. The Queen demands to cut off her head too, and the jury carry out the sentence regardless of the defendant's guilt. The girl increased to her normal size, and then all the cards soar up in the air and flyed in her face. Alice wakes up and discovers that she lies on the shore, and her sister brushes away the dry leaves from her. Alice's Adventures in Wonderland book 1 7.9 / 10 Free book series Mortal Engines Quartet(3 books) Fantastic Beasts(2 books) Mary Poppins(3 books) The Young Elites(2 books) Warcross(1 books) Legend(3 books) The Strain Trilogy(0 books) Bloodlines(0 books) Green Town(0 books) James Bond(0 books) The Secret Circle(0 books) Pretty Little Liars(0 books) Crazy Rich Asians(3 books) All Souls Trilogy(3 books) To All the Boys I've Loved Before(3 books) Alice's Adventures in Wonderland(1 books) The Marked Girl(2 books) The Lying Game(1 books) Millennium(5 books) The Vampire Diaries(4 books) The Breadwinner(1 books) The Dark Tower(3 books) Pushing the Limits(5 books) The Vampire Diaries: the Return(3 books) more >> All genres: Nonfiction Fiction Love & Romance Western Mystery Thriller Science Fiction Fantasy Vampire Horror Historical Fiction Action & Adventure Children Drama Comedy Poetry Classic Literature Young Adult Read Also The Darkest Minds by Alexandra Bracken 8.51 / 10 Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury 8.52 / 10 Beautiful Boy by David Sheff 8.75 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web by David Lagercrantz 8 / 10 Cut And Run by Mary Burton 6 / 10 Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers 8 / 10 LinksFree BooksBook SeriesTerms of serviceDMCAPrivacy policySupportHelp our project © Read Any Book 2018
