https://www.readanybook.com/series-online/The-Lying-Game READ ONLINE The Lying Game series for free. PDF books reading at Read-Any-Book.com. Toggle navigation Search Like site? Tweet Add book Sign In Sign in Remember Me New here ? Join Us The Lying Game by Sara Shepard series Ads The Lying Game By Sara Shepard Series 6 Mb size Download book Read book The “Lying game” is a series of books written by Sara Shepard. The first book, The Lying Game was published on December 7, 2010. This series about twin sisters, about different kinds of relationships between the members of the family, friends, lovers etc. There is a lot of undiscovered mysteries and intrigue. The story is about twin sisters, one of them is Emma Paxton, the kind-hearted and well-mannered girl. She doesn’t have loving parents, except despotic foster mother and pervert brother. Soon Emma has known that she has a twin sister, Sutton. Unlike her sister, Sutton was adopted by wealthy parents and has an ideal life. After the first meeting Sutton asks Emma to pretend her for a few days while she searches information about their birth mother. While Emma has been living Sutton’s life, the relationship between “Sutton” and her foster parents is getting better. During this time, Sutton lives in Los-Angeles with her friend’s brother who has fallen in love with her for a long time. Soon Emma meets Sutton’s boyfriend. He finds out that she is not Sutton. They fall in love with each other. Mercers prepare a birthday party for Sutton where they invite all relatives and friends. This day Sutton returns without telling anyone. Having seen her boyfriend kissing Emma, Sutton declares that Emma has stolen her life and disappears. Afterward, Sutton inexplicably doesn’t come back and probably she is in trouble. Now the heroine had to decide whether to tell the truth about their deal and risk her safety to find out Sutton’s real whereabouts and to learn why sisters were separated in their childhood. The novel is narrated by Sutton Mercer, who has been killed by someone. After her death she is watching for Emma, who has faced with difficulties in order to uncover the identity of Sutton’s killer. The main characters: Emma Paxton – she grew up in a foster family; Sutton Mercer – she was adopted by the wealthy family of Mercers; Laurel Mercel – Sutton's half-sister and the biological daughter of Mercers; Ethan Landry – Sutton’s boyfriend, who soon falls in love with Emma; Ted Mercer – the biological father of Sutton, Emma and Laurel; Kristin Mercer – Sutton’s foster mother and Laurel’s biological mother; Charlotte Chamberlin – Sutton’s friend and Phylis Chamberlin’s daughter. The Lying Game book 1 8.31 / 10 Free book series Mortal Engines Quartet(3 books) Fantastic Beasts(2 books) Mary Poppins(3 books) The Young Elites(2 books) Warcross(1 books) Legend(3 books) The Strain Trilogy(0 books) Bloodlines(0 books) Green Town(0 books) James Bond(0 books) The Secret Circle(0 books) Pretty Little Liars(0 books) Crazy Rich Asians(3 books) All Souls Trilogy(3 books) To All the Boys I've Loved Before(3 books) Alice's Adventures in Wonderland(1 books) The Marked Girl(2 books) The Lying Game(1 books) Millennium(5 books) The Vampire Diaries(4 books) The Breadwinner(1 books) The Dark Tower(3 books) Pushing the Limits(5 books) The Vampire Diaries: the Return(3 books) more >> All genres: Nonfiction Fiction Love & Romance Western Mystery Thriller Science Fiction Fantasy Vampire Horror Historical Fiction Action & Adventure Children Drama Comedy Poetry Classic Literature Young Adult Read Also The Darkest Minds by Alexandra Bracken 8.51 / 10 Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury 8.52 / 10 Beautiful Boy by David Sheff 8.75 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web by David Lagercrantz 8 / 10 Cut And Run by Mary Burton 6 / 10 Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers 8 / 10 LinksFree BooksBook SeriesTerms of serviceDMCAPrivacy policySupportHelp our project © Read Any Book 2018
