https://www.readanybook.com/series-online/The-Vampire-Diaries READ ONLINE The Vampire Diaries series for free. PDF books reading at Read-Any-Book.com. Toggle navigation Search Like site? Tweet Add book Sign In Sign in Remember Me New here ? Join Us The Vampire Diaries by L.J. Smith series Ads The Vampire Diaries By L.J. Smith Series 6.4 Mb size Download book Read book The Vampire Diaries is an American television series developed by Julie Plec and Kevin Williamson on adventures of supernatural beings in small town Mystic Falls located in Virginia, the USA. The series is inspired by the eponymous Lisa Jane Smith book series on vampires in a modern American society. The emphasis is made on the love triangle between the main characters of Elena Gilbert and Stephan and Damon Salvatore who turned to be vampires and brothers at the same time. The story is focused on the mysterious past of Mystic Falls involving Katherine Pierce who resembles Elena and the family of Original vampires. The plot becomes more complicated as each character has their own secrets and plans. Other inhabitants including Elena's younger brother Jeremy Gilbert, her friends Tyler Lockwood, Bonnie Bennett, Matt Donovan, Caroline Forbes actively participated in horrible series of events as the battle between vampires, witches, werewolves has a tremendous impact on their lives. Although Mystic Falls used to be surrounded by different supernatural beings for a long time the return of Katherine Pierce resulted in escalation of conflicts between its inhabitants. The pilot season was shown on 10 September 2009 and then the series was extended up to the eight seasons in 2016. The series was a great success for the CW channel as it attracted the largest audience in its history. The very first season was watched by around 4 million viewers. This series is to be unique amongs other supernatural drama television series as critics agreed that it became better and better from season to season. For this reason it gained high audience ratings for almost all eight seasons and favorable reviews from critics. For now the series is regarded as one of the most successful supernatural drama television series in the USA. For this reason it was shown on different American television channels and abroad and the show won a lot of awards. The most famous nominations include a People's Choice Award and a Teen Choice Award. The CW channel inspired by the success of The Vampire Diaries developed the spin-off named the Originals. It was announced on 3 October 2013 and ordered as an excellent addition to the 2013-2014 television season of the series. The Awakening book 1 5.75 / 10 The Struggle book 2 4 / 10 The Fury book 3 6.57 / 10 Dark Reunion book 4 7.68 / 10 Free book series Mortal Engines Quartet(3 books) Fantastic Beasts(2 books) Mary Poppins(3 books) The Young Elites(2 books) Warcross(1 books) Legend(3 books) The Strain Trilogy(0 books) Bloodlines(0 books) Green Town(0 books) James Bond(0 books) The Secret Circle(0 books) Pretty Little Liars(0 books) Crazy Rich Asians(3 books) All Souls Trilogy(3 books) To All the Boys I've Loved Before(3 books) Alice's Adventures in Wonderland(1 books) The Marked Girl(2 books) The Lying Game(1 books) Millennium(5 books) The Vampire Diaries(4 books) The Breadwinner(1 books) The Dark Tower(3 books) Pushing the Limits(5 books) The Vampire Diaries: the Return(3 books) more >> All genres: Nonfiction Fiction Love & Romance Western Mystery Thriller Science Fiction Fantasy Vampire Horror Historical Fiction Action & Adventure Children Drama Comedy Poetry Classic Literature Young Adult Read Also The Darkest Minds by Alexandra Bracken 8.51 / 10 Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury 8.52 / 10 Beautiful Boy by David Sheff 8.75 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web by David Lagercrantz 8 / 10 Cut And Run by Mary Burton 6 / 10 Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers 8 / 10 LinksFree BooksBook SeriesTerms of serviceDMCAPrivacy policySupportHelp our project © Read Any Book 2018
