https://www.readanybook.com/series-online/The-Dark-Tower READ ONLINE The Dark Tower series for free. PDF books reading at Read-Any-Book.com. Toggle navigation Search Like site? Tweet Add book Sign In Sign in Remember Me New here ? Join Us The Dark Tower by Stephen King series Ads The Dark Tower By Stephen King Series 6.8 Mb size Download book Read book Aight, this is going to be an extremely low dollar synopsis of the Dark Tower series by Stephen King, so that those that don't want to invest the time and money in reading it, can read this post and move on with their lives. However, you really are missing out if you don't give them a shot. I would suggest skipping books one and two, and go straight to 3. Then finish the series out from there. Then go back and read one and two if you get bored and want some back story. Like all King books, these are supernatural thrillers, more so than "horror". But also like all King Books, there are some graphic moments, that if put into a movie, would make it rated X for gore and violence. I find reading such things, I have a high threshold for it. Unlike watching gore on the t.v. or movies, with a book, your mind can decide how much of the grossness to envision. At any rate, I will go into the major plot points, but not get to everything in the book. I can't write everything that happens in 7 books, or it would be a book in itself. This will be short and dirty. I'm also going to put a lot of my own crappola view of things in here, so take it with a grain of salt. Plus, I might get things slightly out of order to fully explain things. Plus, this story is convoluted and complicated in parts, so it's easy to get lost. Don't curse me if this turns out a big OLD MESS. I say short and dirty, but the story is long and convoluted, and even though I'm only hitting some major points, this synopsis is still a long read. Sorry. But to sum up the series in one paragraph: In the late 60's, Stephen King saw the Good, The Bad and the Ugly starring Clint Eastwood and Lee Van Cleef. It inspired him to write a book based on the Man With No Name character, played by Eastwood. A story about a Cowboy who is searching for a Dark Tower, a pylon that controls all space and time, and an infinity of universes. The Gunslinger book 1 8.73 / 10 The Drawing of the Three book 2 7.7 / 10 The Dark Tower book 7 7.44 / 10 Free book series Mortal Engines Quartet(3 books) Fantastic Beasts(2 books) Mary Poppins(3 books) The Young Elites(2 books) Warcross(1 books) Legend(3 books) The Strain Trilogy(0 books) Bloodlines(0 books) Green Town(0 books) James Bond(0 books) The Secret Circle(0 books) Pretty Little Liars(0 books) Crazy Rich Asians(3 books) All Souls Trilogy(3 books) To All the Boys I've Loved Before(3 books) Alice's Adventures in Wonderland(1 books) The Marked Girl(2 books) The Lying Game(1 books) Millennium(5 books) The Vampire Diaries(4 books) The Breadwinner(1 books) The Dark Tower(3 books) Pushing the Limits(5 books) The Vampire Diaries: the Return(3 books) more >> All genres: Nonfiction Fiction Love & Romance Western Mystery Thriller Science Fiction Fantasy Vampire Horror Historical Fiction Action & Adventure Children Drama Comedy Poetry Classic Literature Young Adult Read Also The Darkest Minds by Alexandra Bracken 8.51 / 10 Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury 8.52 / 10 Beautiful Boy by David Sheff 8.75 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web by David Lagercrantz 8 / 10 Cut And Run by Mary Burton 6 / 10 Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers 8 / 10 LinksFree BooksBook SeriesTerms of serviceDMCAPrivacy policySupportHelp our project © Read Any Book 2018
