https://www.readanybook.com/series-online/Outlander READ ONLINE Outlander series for free. PDF books reading at Read-Any-Book.com. Toggle navigation Search Like site? Tweet Add book Sign In Sign in Remember Me New here ? Join Us Outlander by Diana Gabaldon series Ads Outlander By Diana Gabaldon Series 3.1 Mb size Download book Read book The “Outlander” book series is a sequence of novels and shorter works written by Diana Gabaldon that feature elements of historical fiction, romance, mystery, adventure and science fiction/fantasy at the same time. It is marked that these are the most brilliant adventure-romantic and at the same time historical-fantastic novel ever published. The author started this book series by accident. She has just decided to write a novel for practice, in order to understand what it took and because she really wanted to do this. As she didn’t intend to show her first book to anyone, she didn’t limit herself in writing, that’s why the first book turned out to be so vital and outstanding. The Outlander series includes three kinds of stories: the big books, the shorter ones, less indescribable novels, that are more or less historical mysteries and some very short writings, that fit somewhere inside the story lines of the novels and deal frequently – but not exclusively – with secondary characters. By now the Outlander book series includes 8 published and 1 upcoming novels, 5 novellas, 3 shorter novels and 3 short fictions. At first, story is set in 20th century. The main character along all the book series is Claire Beauchamp Randall, an ex-combat nurse. The story begins with her reunion with her husband Frank, after six year of being separated. They enjoy each other and everything goes so lovely and predictable. But one day Claire goes out for a walk alone, and comes across a circle of standing stones. She walks right in the circle of the stones …and disappears. Back into 1743, where she has a lot of adventures and a romance with the dashing Highland warrior Jamie Fraser. Love, affairs, betrayal, hope and sarcastic biting humor of the characters make the narration especially witty. The rest books a kind of carry on the story begun in Outlander. Due to the fact that the author doesn’t like to repeat herself, each book is unique in structure, tone, approach, and theme but for the central characters. You can read the short novels and novellas by themselves, or in any order you like. But to follow Claire’s time travelling in correct chronological order it is recommended to read the Big, Enormous Books in order they are published. Outlander book 1 9.21 / 10 Dragonfly in Amber book 2 7.93 / 10 Voyager book 3 9 / 10 Drums of Autumn book 4 8.72 / 10 Free book series Mortal Engines Quartet(3 books) Fantastic Beasts(2 books) Mary Poppins(3 books) The Young Elites(2 books) Warcross(1 books) Legend(3 books) The Strain Trilogy(0 books) Bloodlines(0 books) Green Town(0 books) James Bond(0 books) The Secret Circle(0 books) Pretty Little Liars(0 books) Crazy Rich Asians(3 books) All Souls Trilogy(3 books) To All the Boys I've Loved Before(3 books) Alice's Adventures in Wonderland(1 books) The Marked Girl(2 books) The Lying Game(1 books) Millennium(5 books) The Vampire Diaries(4 books) The Breadwinner(1 books) The Dark Tower(3 books) Pushing the Limits(5 books) The Vampire Diaries: the Return(3 books) more >> All genres: Nonfiction Fiction Love & Romance Western Mystery Thriller Science Fiction Fantasy Vampire Horror Historical Fiction Action & Adventure Children Drama Comedy Poetry Classic Literature Young Adult Read Also The Darkest Minds by Alexandra Bracken 8.51 / 10 Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury 8.52 / 10 Beautiful Boy by David Sheff 8.75 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web by David Lagercrantz 8 / 10 Cut And Run by Mary Burton 6 / 10 Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers 8 / 10 LinksFree BooksBook SeriesTerms of serviceDMCAPrivacy policySupportHelp our project © Read Any Book 2018
