https://www.readanybook.com/series-online/If-I-Stay READ ONLINE If I Stay series for free. PDF books reading at Read-Any-Book.com. Toggle navigation Search Like site? Tweet Add book Sign In Sign in Remember Me New here ? Join Us If I Stay by Gayle Forman series Ads If I Stay By Gayle Forman Series 2.7 Mb size Download book Read book “If I Stay” is a book series written by Gayle Forman. There are two books in this series: “If I Stay” and “Where She Went”. These books are aimed at young readers as they tell us a story of 17-year-old Mia Hall and the way she deals with the aftermath of a car accident her family got in. “If I Stay” is narrated in the name of Mia. The car accident took her family and left Mia alone to survive. After awakening she finds the bodies of her dead parents and then she reveals her own body in a coma and can watch her friends and relatives gathering at the hospital where she is being treated. Mia understands that she has stuck between two worlds. We follow Mia's stories and the unfolding of her life through a series of flashbacks. Mia reflects on her life, reminiscing about the development of her relationship with Adam, the development of her passion and talent for playing the cello, and the obstacles of being a teenager who feels out of place no matter where she goes. Mia goes back and forth between deciding whether to stay with her remaining family, as well as Adam, or whether to leave to be with her parents and brother, who have all passed on. Her decision is almost made up to leave, until Adam finally reaches the room where her body is being held. Will she stay or will she go? “If I Stay” is followed by the sequel “Where She Went”. This novel is told from the perspective of Adam, Mia's boyfriend. The two were going through a hard time when Mia made the decision to end her relationship with Adam and left to go to New York to study Music art. Adam started making his career, released his music album which made hip a music star. And Mia herself has become a top-rate cellist, playing in some of the finest venues in the world. The sequel follows their reunion through one night in New York, and takes them on a wild ride that might bring the two back together. If I Stay (Book #1) book 1 8.87 / 10 Where She Went (If I Stay #2) book 2 8.87 / 10 Free book series Mortal Engines Quartet(3 books) Fantastic Beasts(2 books) Mary Poppins(3 books) The Young Elites(2 books) Warcross(1 books) Legend(3 books) The Strain Trilogy(0 books) Bloodlines(0 books) Green Town(0 books) James Bond(0 books) The Secret Circle(0 books) Pretty Little Liars(0 books) Crazy Rich Asians(3 books) All Souls Trilogy(3 books) To All the Boys I've Loved Before(3 books) Alice's Adventures in Wonderland(1 books) The Marked Girl(2 books) The Lying Game(1 books) Millennium(5 books) The Vampire Diaries(4 books) The Breadwinner(1 books) The Dark Tower(3 books) Pushing the Limits(5 books) The Vampire Diaries: the Return(3 books) more >> All genres: Nonfiction Fiction Love & Romance Western Mystery Thriller Science Fiction Fantasy Vampire Horror Historical Fiction Action & Adventure Children Drama Comedy Poetry Classic Literature Young Adult Read Also The Darkest Minds by Alexandra Bracken 8.51 / 10 Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury 8.52 / 10 Beautiful Boy by David Sheff 8.75 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web by David Lagercrantz 8 / 10 Cut And Run by Mary Burton 6 / 10 Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers 8 / 10 LinksFree BooksBook SeriesTerms of serviceDMCAPrivacy policySupportHelp our project © Read Any Book 2018
