https://www.readanybook.com/series-online/Me-Before-You READ ONLINE Me Before You series for free. PDF books reading at Read-Any-Book.com. Toggle navigation Search Like site? Tweet Add book Sign In Sign in Remember Me New here ? Join Us Me Before You by Jojo Moyes series Ads Me Before You By Jojo Moyes Series 6.5 Mb size Download book Read book Me Before You is a book series of two books "Me Before You "and" After You" written by the #1 "New York Times" bestselling author Jojo Moyes. Love is the most powerful force driving our mind. Love can kill and rise from dead. Love can destroy and create. Love can please and disappoint. To be loved and to love have different meanings and play different role in our lives. The book series “Me before you” shows us different consequences caused by this feeling. The first book of the series narrates about Lou and Will. Here love changes their lives. It saves the girl from her family pressure and the boy from death. She has to work at the place she doesn’t like, to meet the boy she might not love at all, to suffer from being outshone by her younger sister. He has to struggle every day, to undergo the pain and endure the fact that he will never be able to walk again. She struggles with failures and poverty; he struggles with the desire to stop his life. Suddenly the accident changes everything. They meet each other and they have nothing to suffer from but for the minutes they have to be separated from each other. This is the positive side of love. “After You” shows the contrast side of love. Will dies and love makes Lou suffer again. The wounds in her heart are so deep that she can’t struggle any more and, despite Will’s last piece of advice, live well; her bubbly feistiness is gone and she’s stuck in a dead-end job. At night, she sits out on her roof, drinking white wine, gazing out across the city and getting maudlin. The already familiar characters pass through all the book but we constant feel the absence of Will together with Lou. After Louisa’s falling off the roof lots of thing change. She meets Sam, the gorgeous paramedic, who disentangles her from the downstairs neighbour’s awning, and Lily, the 16-year-old who accidentally caused her to fall in the first place. These mismatched strangers, together with the motley crew at the “Moving On” therapy group that Louisa grudgingly attends, help her emerge from the dark place she’s in. These books give you the unique opportunity to see how finding, losing of love or living without it influence our condition. You will definitely fall in love with the main characters and will be unable to tear yourself away from reading about Lou Clark’s unputdownable story. With this book series Jojo Moyes continued to reign on bestseller lists and captivate audiences worldwide. Me Before You book 1 9.19 / 10 After You book 2 8.14 / 10 Free book series Mortal Engines Quartet(3 books) Fantastic Beasts(2 books) Mary Poppins(3 books) The Young Elites(2 books) Warcross(1 books) Legend(3 books) The Strain Trilogy(0 books) Bloodlines(0 books) Green Town(0 books) James Bond(0 books) The Secret Circle(0 books) Pretty Little Liars(0 books) Crazy Rich Asians(3 books) All Souls Trilogy(3 books) To All the Boys I've Loved Before(3 books) Alice's Adventures in Wonderland(1 books) The Marked Girl(2 books) The Lying Game(1 books) Millennium(5 books) The Vampire Diaries(4 books) The Breadwinner(1 books) The Dark Tower(3 books) Pushing the Limits(5 books) The Vampire Diaries: the Return(3 books) more >> All genres: Nonfiction Fiction Love & Romance Western Mystery Thriller Science Fiction Fantasy Vampire Horror Historical Fiction Action & Adventure Children Drama Comedy Poetry Classic Literature Young Adult Read Also The Darkest Minds by Alexandra Bracken 8.51 / 10 Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury 8.52 / 10 Beautiful Boy by David Sheff 8.75 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web by David Lagercrantz 8 / 10 Cut And Run by Mary Burton 6 / 10 Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers 8 / 10 LinksFree BooksBook SeriesTerms of serviceDMCAPrivacy policySupportHelp our project © Read Any Book 2018
