https://www.readanybook.com/series-online/The-Hollows READ ONLINE The Hollows series for free. PDF books reading at Read-Any-Book.com. Toggle navigation Search Like site? Tweet Add book Sign In Sign in Remember Me New here ? Join Us The Hollows by Kim Harrison series Ads The Hollows By Kim Harrison Series 5.6 Mb size Download book Read book If you are tired of simple horror stories or romances and you desire to read something unusual written in True Blood style with a piece of action, love and mystery, you should definitely pay your attention to “The Hollows”. It is a series of books also called The Rachel Morgan series, as she is a key-figure of this books series. It consists of thirteen mystery novels, eight short stories, two graphic novels, and one compendium resource by Kim Harrison. Loads of actions, adventure, paranormal activity, mystery, an intricate plot, romance, and unpredictable denouement this series has it all. It is impossible definitely to determine the style of these books, a king of paranormal romance or dark fantasy, but that just doesn't capture the real content of these books. On the one hand, this books series is an embodiment of supernatural with all its magic and characters, on the other hand, it is a kind of alternative history of universe. The reader can notice the reflection of Cold War when see the result of release of a genetically modified tomato that killed a significant portion of the human population. The books are set several years after this plague, referred to as 'The Turn'. By this time Inderlanders (non-human races) realized that T4 Angel virus cut down the number of people and despite the human still outnumbers the other races, people are not as dominant as they once were. That let the Inderlanders not hide anymore. They came forth and revealed themselves. And the writer exposes their daily routine to the reader. The heroine, Rachel Morgan herself, is not just a simple girl, but a real a detective and a bounty hunter witch who works with local law enforcement agencies and faces threats both mundane and supernatural in origin. There are also two other vivid characters, Rachel’s roommates, who are a living vampire and a cocky little pixy. They are also her coworkers and these three are going after vampires, werewolves, witches etc. Striking plot is provided with striking actions opposed to affectionate and sensitive between Rachel and her admirers. This series will definitely satisfy the demands of the readers of every kind. The Turn book 0.1 9.29 / 10 Dead Witch Walking book 1 8.16 / 10 The Good, the Bad, And the Undead book 2 8.5 / 10 Every Which Way But Dead book 3 9.13 / 10 A Fistful of Charms book 4 7.18 / 10 For a Few Demons More book 5 7.81 / 10 A Perfect Blood book 10 9.31 / 10 Ever After book 11 9 / 10 Free book series Mortal Engines Quartet(3 books) Fantastic Beasts(2 books) Mary Poppins(3 books) The Young Elites(2 books) Warcross(1 books) Legend(3 books) The Strain Trilogy(0 books) Bloodlines(0 books) Green Town(0 books) James Bond(0 books) The Secret Circle(0 books) Pretty Little Liars(0 books) Crazy Rich Asians(3 books) All Souls Trilogy(3 books) To All the Boys I've Loved Before(3 books) Alice's Adventures in Wonderland(1 books) The Marked Girl(2 books) The Lying Game(1 books) Millennium(5 books) The Vampire Diaries(4 books) The Breadwinner(1 books) The Dark Tower(3 books) Pushing the Limits(5 books) The Vampire Diaries: the Return(3 books) more >> All genres: Nonfiction Fiction Love & Romance Western Mystery Thriller Science Fiction Fantasy Vampire Horror Historical Fiction Action & Adventure Children Drama Comedy Poetry Classic Literature Young Adult Read Also The Darkest Minds by Alexandra Bracken 8.51 / 10 Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury 8.52 / 10 Beautiful Boy by David Sheff 8.75 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web by David Lagercrantz 8 / 10 Cut And Run by Mary Burton 6 / 10 Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers 8 / 10 LinksFree BooksBook SeriesTerms of serviceDMCAPrivacy policySupportHelp our project © Read Any Book 2018
