https://www.readanybook.com/series-online/Millennium READ ONLINE Millennium series for free. PDF books reading at Read-Any-Book.com. Toggle navigation Search Like site? Tweet Add book Sign In Sign in Remember Me New here ? Join Us Millennium by Stieg Larsson series Ads Millennium By Stieg Larsson Series 5.5 Mb size Download book Read book Millennium consists of three novels written by the famous Swedish writer Stieg Larson. All three books were published after his death in 2004. The first installment The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo deals with the story of the journalist Michael Blomkvist and the hacker Lisbeth Salander who try to discover the past of the family of the mysterious millionaire Henrick Vanger. Michael publishes his own magazine Millennium until he is accused of libeling the powerful magnate Hans-Erik Wennerström. After his conviction he accepts Henrick Vanger’ proposal to investigate the murder of his niece Harriet who disappeared about 30 years ago. A young talented computer specialist whose task is to hack computers accompanies him. They effectively work together and come close to Harriet’s disappearance when they realize that their own lives are in danger. The second novel The Girl Who Played with Fire was published in 2006 (the first novel was introduced to readers a year before). The familiar character Lisbeth Salander is back to Stockholm in several months from the mystery of Harriet’s disappearance has been discovered. The city is shocked by three murders. The only person who knows all three victims is Lisbeth and for this reason she is suspected by the police. Meanwhile Michael is also engaged in this investigation although Lisbeth does not explain anything about these murders. Despite all these obstacles, his task is to prove her innocence and to find the real murder. The next novel The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet’s Nest revolves around secret enemies of Lisbeth who try to commit serious crimes against her health and freedom. At the very beginning of the book, we find her lying paralyzed in the hospital. Zalachenko is eager to consider her mad and to send her in a hospital for mentally disabled. Others attempts her to kill for various reasons. Meanwhile she is still charged with murders and the legal process is in progress. Michael and his friends form the Swedish Security Service are looking for her secret enemies in order to save her life and freedom. Their task becomes more complicated as Lisbeth has her own plans which are quite different from theirs. This series also includes the fourth book The Girl in the Spider’s Web written by David Lagercrantz. Now Michael and Lisbeth try to protect the famous computer scientist Frans Balder pursued by the secret organization The Spider Society. The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo book 1 9.86 / 10 The Girl Who Played With Fire book 2 7.44 / 10 The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest book 3 7 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web book 4 8 / 10 The Girl Who Takes An Eye for An Eye book 5 7 / 10 Free book series Mortal Engines Quartet(3 books) Fantastic Beasts(2 books) Mary Poppins(3 books) The Young Elites(2 books) Warcross(1 books) Legend(3 books) The Strain Trilogy(0 books) Bloodlines(0 books) Green Town(0 books) James Bond(0 books) The Secret Circle(0 books) Pretty Little Liars(0 books) Crazy Rich Asians(3 books) All Souls Trilogy(3 books) To All the Boys I've Loved Before(3 books) Alice's Adventures in Wonderland(1 books) The Marked Girl(2 books) The Lying Game(1 books) Millennium(5 books) The Vampire Diaries(4 books) The Breadwinner(1 books) The Dark Tower(3 books) Pushing the Limits(5 books) The Vampire Diaries: the Return(3 books) more >> All genres: Nonfiction Fiction Love & Romance Western Mystery Thriller Science Fiction Fantasy Vampire Horror Historical Fiction Action & Adventure Children Drama Comedy Poetry Classic Literature Young Adult Read Also The Darkest Minds by Alexandra Bracken 8.51 / 10 Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury 8.52 / 10 Beautiful Boy by David Sheff 8.75 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web by David Lagercrantz 8 / 10 Cut And Run by Mary Burton 6 / 10 Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers 8 / 10 LinksFree BooksBook SeriesTerms of serviceDMCAPrivacy policySupportHelp our project © Read Any Book 2018
