https://www.readanybook.com/series-online/Vicki-Nelson READ ONLINE Vicki Nelson series for free. PDF books reading at Read-Any-Book.com. Toggle navigation Search Like site? Tweet Add book Sign In Sign in Remember Me New here ? Join Us Vicki Nelson by Tanya Huff series Ads Vicki Nelson By Tanya Huff Series 5.5 Mb size Download book Read book “Vicki Nelson” books series is also called as “Blood Books”, as every title of the book begins with the word “blood”. It is written by a Canadian fantasy author Tanya Sue Huff. “Blood Price”, the first novel in Blood Books series, introduces Vicktoria (or Vicky) Nelson, a former police officer with failing eyesight due to Retinitis Pigmentosa Nelson. She is accompanied in her work by Henry Fitzroy and Sergeant Mike Cellucci. Mike is a regular Detective-Sergeant, Vicky’s colleague and a former lover. At first sight Henry Fitzroy may seem a useless person. He is a bastard son of Henry VIII, Henry FitzRoy, etc. In short, he is a writer of historical romances of noble birth and … a vampire. Vicki's failing eyesight disqualified her from street work and she resigned rather than took a desk job, and, at the start of the first book, she works as a private detective. Together Vicki and Henry stand against a number of supernatural threats. The series is set in Canada, mainly in Toronto, Ontario, London, Ontario and Vancouver, British Columbia. It uses familiar landmarks, down to Tony's home on "Neal Avenue" being recognizably Nealon Avenue north of Danforth Avenue The first book was followed by four other novels: Blood Trail, Blood Lines, Blood Pact, Blood Debt, and also with one short stories collection - Blood Bank. Here the word “blood” is not a sign of horror or cruelty but it undoubtedly a key-word as vampires are the important part of the narration. If you want to read about cruelty and honor of vampires, if you want to see the fight between mindless and responsible vampires without any love affairs, weddings, tears and so on, you will definitely like this book. Blood Price book 1 6.25 / 10 Blood Trail book 2 7.18 / 10 Free book series Mortal Engines Quartet(3 books) Fantastic Beasts(2 books) Mary Poppins(3 books) The Young Elites(2 books) Warcross(1 books) Legend(3 books) The Strain Trilogy(0 books) Bloodlines(0 books) Green Town(0 books) James Bond(0 books) The Secret Circle(0 books) Pretty Little Liars(0 books) Crazy Rich Asians(3 books) All Souls Trilogy(3 books) To All the Boys I've Loved Before(3 books) Alice's Adventures in Wonderland(1 books) The Marked Girl(2 books) The Lying Game(1 books) Millennium(5 books) The Vampire Diaries(4 books) The Breadwinner(1 books) The Dark Tower(3 books) Pushing the Limits(5 books) The Vampire Diaries: the Return(3 books) more >> All genres: Nonfiction Fiction Love & Romance Western Mystery Thriller Science Fiction Fantasy Vampire Horror Historical Fiction Action & Adventure Children Drama Comedy Poetry Classic Literature Young Adult Read Also The Darkest Minds by Alexandra Bracken 8.51 / 10 Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury 8.52 / 10 Beautiful Boy by David Sheff 8.75 / 10 The Girl in the Spider's Web by David Lagercrantz 8 / 10 Cut And Run by Mary Burton 6 / 10 Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers 8 / 10 LinksFree BooksBook SeriesTerms of serviceDMCAPrivacy policySupportHelp our project © Read Any Book 2018
