http://www.romanticmarriagestories.com/ Romantic Marriage Stories Free Romantic Stories Set in a Happy Marriage My Romantic Marriage Stories >  Terry & Laurie Series Josh & Nikki Series Derek & Angie Story Romantic Date at Riverview Park Guest Stories Romantic Marriage Helps >  How to Say No In a Sexy Way 10 Different Romantic Ways to Hold Hands My Tips for a Romantic Marriage My Favorite Love Songs Links to Other Romantic Web Sites About Me >  Email Me A Picture of Me An Anniversary Present to My Wife Guest Book >  Read/Sign My Guest Book Additional Feedback from Readers Submit Your Own Romantic Story Access Forum Interested in watching romantic comedies on television? Check this out. A Long-Overdue Fix August 19, 2011: For several years now the music on the pages, "An Anniversary Present to my Wife" and "Some of My Favorite Love Songs: Lyrics and Music," was not working on many browsers. I have finally fixed the problem. The songs should now play on all broswers. Of course, the Adode Flash Player must be installed, but that's easy to do if it isn't. When you open one of the song pages, if you need the Flash Player there will be a link displayed, "Get the Flash Player." For all but one song, you can select between an instrumental version and the version performed by the artist most often associated with the song. Lyrics are provided for all songs. I truly hope you enjoy them. In my opinion they represent some of the most beautiful love songs ever written. A few of them may even bring tears to your eyes. They have that effect on me. Welcome Message If you want to read happy, romantic stories about married life, some tender and some humorous, you have come to the right place. This site contains two series of short stories written by me. Both series are written in the first person. However, the Terry and Laurie stories are written from Terry's point of view, while the Josh and Nikki stories are written from Nikki's point of view. You can read a general introduction to both series on the Terry and Laurie page and the Josh and Nikki page. There are also two additional stories I wrote, which are described here on the home page, in addition to many stories submitted by others. I truly hope and pray that my stories will give you, especially wives, many ideas on how to make your marriages more romantic. Thanks so much for visiting my Web site. --Bill Quinn Please Sign My Guest Book Email Me Romantic Dating Stories To quote a good friend of mine, "I love young love!" The latest Josh and Nikki story (below) is mostly their reminiscing about how they met and started dating. Since then I've really wanted to write a "romantic dating story." So...here's my first: "Lonely Boy". (Some of you may recongnize that title!) It's written in the third person, but the girl plays the leading role. PLEASE let me know if you like the story and if you'd like more romantic dating stories! Latest Josh and Nikki Story March 2, 2015 This is the first new story I've written for this site since November, 2012. I'm so sorry for this huge delay, but ideas for stories are not so easy to come by as you might think! However, I am really excited about this story--it is truly sweet, tender, and romantic! Maybe it will make your eyes a bit misty, as it does mine when I reread it. I'm calling it "Romantic Reminiscing." In it Nikki gets this great idea for a romantic evening with Josh: reminiscing on how they met and began dating. Maybe it will stir up wonderful memories of when you met and started dating your husband. AND...oldies rock-n-roll from the 50s and 60s--plays a major role in this story. In fact, one of the most romantic songs ever written plays the central role in bringing Josh and Nikki together. AND...you can actually play the original version of this song right here on this site-- "A Thousnad Stars in the Sky.". Click here for "Romantic Reminiscing" or use this link for all my stories in the Josh and Nikki series. As always, I'd love to hear from you if the story touches your heart. (March 2, 2015) Previous Josh and Nikki Story The story is very special to me--from my heart, you might say. I entitled it "Affection," and its in the Josh and Nikki series where I write in the first person from Nikki's point of view. So I'm especially hoping the wives will find it a truly sweet and tender story and will be inspired by reading it. If you are, do drop me a line. As I said, the story is very special to me. You can click here to read it. Oh, yes: I really did get the idea for the story when I saw that advertisement. Here's the link for all my stories in the Josh and Nikki series. (April 10, 2012) Latest Story by Tina Here's the latest story by Tina about how romance and love can thrive in a culture where arranged marriages are common. Those who enjoyed her first story will not be disappointed. In this one, what at first looked like a disaster during a visit by Raj's grandmother actually produced a very sweet and romantic ending. By the way, do you know what a saree is? In this story you'll not only find out, but you'll see one! Click here for "The Visit by Grandma". "A Romantic Date at Riverview Park" Since its inception, this Web site has been dedicated to married couples looking for ways to make their marriages more exciting, more playful, and more fun. However, I recently wrote a "dating" story describing a young, unmarried couple that just might fit in. Dating today, much to my regret, is quite different from what it was when I was dating. Today, even a casual date often means going to bed together. I believe sex should be reserved for marriage. So I'd like to take you back to a more innocent time--when it was a major decision for a girl how soon to let her new boyfriend kiss her goodnight! These were not "dull" times by any stretch of the imagination. The same hormones flowed in guys and girls back then as they do now. So it was an intensely exciting period, much more so, really, than dating is today. How much of that tingly excitement, that nervous expectation, that thrill that came from holding hands and kissing goodnight--how much of that can there be when even having sex is hohum and quite ordinary? Now I want you wives out there to picture yourselves a young girl, maybe late teens or early twenties. It's the late fifties or early sixties--back in days of bobby socks and sock hops. Picture yourselves back when traditional values and morals were the norm. For those of you who actually grew up then, this will be a romantic walk down memory lane as you relive all the excitement of those dates back then. For those of you who grew up later, I want to show you how exciting it was for girls--and guys!--back then. You'll feel the thrill that could come from just a kiss. But what does all this have to do with your marriages now? Well, guys back then were still guys, and we're hard-wired in a very specific way. Guys could get fresh on a date, and girls had to be on their guard. What a time of mixed emotions that was! One part of you was thrilled when he might try something, oh, just a bit fresh. Another part of you wondered whether you should let him. Well, now you're married. Wouldn't it be exciting for you if you pretended to be on a date with your husband, and he "got fresh" with you? Think how thrilling that might be! But since you're now married, after first putting up a playful resistance, you can let him get fresh! Think how it could bring you back to the early days of your relationship and how much new life it could bring to your marriage. Here we go then. I was born and raised in Chicago, so let me take you back to yesteryear, to a wondeful era when so many couples went to Riverview Park on a date. My little story is fully illustrated and written from the girl's point of view. You'll see what you probably would have worn on your date, and you'll see the rides your boyfriend will take you on. But girls, be on your guard--Riverview provided a lot of ways and opportunities for your boyfriend to get fresh with you! Click here for"A Romantic Date at Riverview Park" Our Discussion Forum Much to my disappointment, the Romantic Marriage Stories forum has been inactive for a long time now. When I had open registration, the forum was inundated with spam, advertising, and porn. So now you need to send me an email, and I'll register you. But don't let that deter you. I've just added two new boards to the forum. There are now five in all. Let's get some discussions going again! Sally-- Please repost your experience as originally posted in our Guest Book. It shows how wonderful a marriage really can be. Thanks, I'd really appreciate it. --Bill A Warm Welcome to Jayasree Our Newest Writer August 27, 2016 Jayasree is a young wife in India who loves to write romantic stories. Like Tina, our first Indian author, Jayasree writes about how love and romance can grow and flourish in an arranged marriage. This story, "I Love You," has some really great humor as well as tender feelings of love. I hope you enjoy reading it as much as I did. A New Story from Debra Phillips February 6, 2016 Debi has written a new story and introduced a new couple--Meg and Carl. It is a truly beautiful story of one of the most romantic surprise anniversary getaways I've ever read--and it's all planned and orchestrated by Carl! You wives can appreciate how much that would mean! The story also features "The Anniversary Song," which you can listen to on this Web site--but read the story first! Hope you enjoy "The Sweetest Anniversary" (February 6, 2016) 10 Different Romantic Ways to Hold Hands "If you’re one of the many people out there who think that holding hands is a simple, boring routine that adds nothing to a marriage or romantic relationship, think again!" That's how this article starts. I highly recommend reading it. Here's the link (off site). News for Fans of Debra Phillips Many of you have long enjoyed the stories posted here by Debi. She has now published a second Kindle ebook called "I'm Thankful For." It contains three true stories of how God has helped her through the years. Her first Kindle ebook, "Marriage Special Moments," contains four Marc and Carrie stories, her fiction series about a happy and romantic married couple. I encourage you to take a look at both ebooks here. (Dec. 4, 2013) My Most Popular Story There are a number of Web sites, including Christian Web sites, that explain how a wife can do a striptease for her husband. Perhaps you have thought about doing that for your husband on some very special occasion but have been just a little too shy or self-conscious to try it. I hope you enjoy reading Laurie's solution to this problem. It may open up a very exciting possibility for your marriage. Click here for "The Shy Wife's Striptease" or use this link for all my stories in the Terry and Laurie series. "When Dreams Come True": Inspired by "Annie" A while back in my Guestbook there was a most intriguing entry by Annie: "Thanks for your stories. Gave me some great ideas.....I'm the type who loves the marriage bed, more than my husband. Its time to make him ask for it....thanks for Laurie and Nikki!" Those familiar with my stories know that they offer a wife many cute, romantic, and sexy ideas for what to do if she is not "in the mood" quite as often as her husband. Annie seems to have the opposite problem. So I wondered: what ideas did Annie get from Laurie's antics? Then a few thoughts occurred to me, and...a new story was created! It's based on a new couple, Derek and Angie, but like the Nikki stories, it's written in the first person from the wife's point of view. I call the story, "When Dreams Come True". It's a tender story that portrays the sadness and hurt some wives experience. But like all my stories, it has a sweet and happy ending! Thanks, Annie! I hope you enjoy my story. Update: I was so happy to get Annie's comment after reading the story: "Thanks so much for your Derek and Angie story. I almost cried. You described my love life. I've cried myself to sleep in the disappointment and hurt that Angie describes. I love the way she overcomes it all..... gives me lots to think about. Thanks again!" I hope many other wives like Annie are encouraged by this story. Feel free to write me any time. My Guestbook and Sister Web Site Not long ago I got a very interesting comment in my Guestbook from "K.M.S.": I'm a college-age girl going to a party university. Most of the stories I happen to overhear after class or even read in the campus newspaper just turn me off and make me lose faith in true love. I love these stories- this I what I think of when I think of REAL love! The characters are kind and caring towards each other which is what makes the finale so special! I really wish there were more authors like Mr. Quinn, his stories really stand apart from most of the immoral gossip I hear all day. Keep on writing! Yes, my stories emphasize the wonderful role romance and sex can play in a marriage, but more than that these stories--and this Web site--are dedicated to presenting a high view of marriage, namely, that in marriage alone are these wonderful expressions of love between a man and a woman to be experienced. In this day when casual sex seems to be part and parcel of the dating experience, I'm so encouraged to find that there are still young, unmarried people like K.M.S. who share this view of marriage. So...I'm going to make a little announcement. For those of you who are still in the dating stage of romance, I have a sister Web site called Good Clean Novels that you might enjoy. I've posted two of my novels, and there is also one written by my wife. My two novels are both romance novels, but again they uphold the high view of marriage even within the dating experience. My favorite is Recapturing Forever, in which my heroine, Kristie, wrestles with these very issues that face young girls today. If you are still single and dating, you might really enjoy these romance novels. For those who are married, I think you will also. I do--I still get a little misty-eyed when I reread some of the scenes in Recapturing Forever. If you go to Good Clean Novels, you'll also learn my real name. "Bill Quinn" is only a pen name. My email address is also at both sites for any of you who might want to "chat." © Copyright 2017 Romantic Marriage Storiess. All Rights Reserved. | Contact Us | Email Webmaster Top of Page Return to Home Page Latest Site Update: July 2017 For Web sites to display properly, always use the latest version of your browser. This Web site displays best in Firefox.
