http://surrenderingpagesofromance.blogspot.ca/ Surrendering To Whispers Of Desire Surrendering To Whispers Of Desire Do you like strong devilishly handsome men? I would like to introduce you to Lord Devon Price. He is smart, sarcastically funny, wickedly charming, and can be found in my novel "Surrendering". This tall seductive man built like a Greek God, awaits for you to come and discover him between the pages of "Surrendering". I think you may be surprised how such a strong man like Lord Devon Price reacts to falling in love. I can assure you, it is not what you would expect. Monday, January 23, 2012 The Whispers of Desire Saga This collection is comprised of 3 novels so far. Novel 1#  ~ Surrendering Novel 2#  ~ The Temptation Of A Kiss Novel 3#  ~ Passionate Whispers In The Night? Surrendering is available now on the site. Sneak peeks of the other 2 novels can be found at the website below. A collection of short stories is also available FREE in weekly Monday Morning Chapters. Pages of Romance ? Posted by Cary at 5:30 AM No comments: Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest Labels: devon price, free online romantic stories, hot romance stories, romantic stories, sarah mcmay, steamy romance stories, whispers of desire Friday, December 9, 2011 Devon Price and Sarah McMay Surrendering Devon Price and Sarah McMay For some people falling in love is simple. It feels fanciful to them or even mystical. In a dim lit room filled with strangers, she is suddenly struck with the warm sensations of butterflies that flutter up from deep within. One is not able to help but gaze at the cause across the room from them. For others, falling in love can be confusing and at times torturous. The desire to reach out and touch the one that consumes their every thought drives them to madness. Feelings of desperation and a burning need, to just once, be able to feel her lips on his for a brief moment in time. Just one kiss, one small gentle graze of one's lips on the others, an intimate suspension in time giving into the soft whispers of surrender that calls out in the night. Devon Price and Sarah McMay feel a desire for one another they have never felt before. The tension between them is felt by everyone in the room when they are together. One dreams of love and the other resists it. Sarah finds herself in an impossible situation now that her father has passed away. She needs help escaping the clutches of her greedy uncle and turns to Devon for help. Little did she know he was going to capture her heart and then walk away? Had she known what fates lie ahead for her, Sarah would have never allowed him to kiss her. Devon promised Sarah's father Benjamin, he would look after Sarah before his friend and business partner was murdered. Devon had not seen Sarah in years and when he did, she took his breath away. Devon is willing to protect Sarah at any price, almost. As Devon realizes he is falling in love with her, he does his best to pull back from Sarah. As he soon finds out this is an impossible task. He wants her but is bound by a promise to help her, not seduce her. He cannot endure the torture of being in the same room with her and yet he cannot leave her unsecure from who is after her. Sarah believes he will never love her and tries letting him go. She is left confused and heartbroken. He kisses her then pushes her away. He touches her in ways she never dreamed could happen and then leaves with no word of his whereabouts to a sole for days. In a final moment of unbearable heartache, she breaks down and Devon is left realizing what he has done to her. Sarah's pain is visible all over her face, streaming through in her tears, and trembling through her body before him at his feet. He cannot take his words back that he befell on her. He cannot undo the unforgiveable hurt he has caused her. He makes an astonishing decision. The only one he can live with. "Surrendering" Whispers of Desire Saga by Cary Davis and Pages of Romance Publishing Book 1  A list of pages to the right breaks down the novel into chapters from the beginning to end. Enjoy! Comments are always welcomed. Posted by Cary at 12:59 AM No comments: Email ThisBlogThis!Share to TwitterShare to FacebookShare to Pinterest Labels: devon price, free online romantic stories, hot romance stories, romantic stories, sarah mcmay, steamy romance stories, whispers of desire Home Subscribe to: Posts (Atom) Follow this blog with bloglovin Surrendering Characters and Complete Novel Home Surrendering ~ Novel 1 from Whispers of Desire Saga Chapters 1 thru 10 Surrendering ~ Novel 1 from Whispers of Desire Saga Chapters 11 thru 22 Surrendering ~ Novel 1 from Whispers of Desire Saga Chapters 23 thru 30 Blog Archive ?  2012 (1) ?  January (1) The Whispers of Desire Saga ?  2011 (1) ?  December (1) Follow by Email Followers Feedjit Live Blog Stats Pages of Romantica Blog Novels beyond Just Desire... Erotic Pages of Romance Short Sinful Stories of Pleasure Mizz Romantica Pages of Romance and Romantica Promote Your Page Too Erotic Pages Of Romance Loading... Mizz Romantica Join us on facebook Romantic Words of Whispers devon price free online romantic stories hot romance stories romantic stories sarah mcmay steamy romance stories whispers of desire Search This Blog Total Pageviews Pages of Romantica Loading... Awesome Inc. theme. Powered by Blogger.
