https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Main_Page Wikisource, the free library Main Page From Wikisource Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikisource, the free library that anyone can improve. 412,731 texts in English Site index Community portal News Sandbox DECEMBER’S FEATURED TEXT Grab a download! Messiah (c. 1749) is a libretto prepared by Charles Jennens in the summer of 1741. Jennens sent his libretto to George Frideric Handel who completed music to accompany the text in only 24 days. The collaboration yielded an English-language oratorio that was first performed in Dublin in April of 1742. Despite premiering to an only modest reception, Messiah today is one of the best-known and most frequently performed choral works in Western music. Jennens himself was a landowner and literary scholar; he used his wealth to support the publication of Handel's scores and his literary skill to craft librettos for several of Handel's oratorios. Also a devout Anglican, his libretto for Messiah drew upon passages in the Authorized Version of the Bible, and from translations of the Psalms in the 1662 edition of the Book of Common Prayer. Handel revised the score for the oratorio many times, to better suit individual soloists or the musical venue, and so there is no definitive edition of the score. There is a definitive text, however, as Handel apparently saw no need to make any significant amendment to Jennens's libretto. Comfort ye, comfort ye my People, ?aith your God; ?peak ye comfortably to Jeru?alem, and cry unto her, that her Warfare is accompli?hed, that her Iniquity is pardoned. The Voice of him that crieth in the Wilderne?s, Prepare ye the Way of the Lord, make ?traight in the De?ert a Highway for our God. SONG. Every Valley ?hall be exalted, and every Mountain and Hill made low, the crooked ?traight, and the rough Places plain. (Read on...) or see all featured texts. CURRENT COLLABORATIONS The current Community collaboration is collecting texts related to The Sikh Religion Recent collaborations: Eminent Women Series, Edward VII of the United Kingdom, Henry David Thoreau, WikiProject NARA, Tenth Anniversary Contest The current Proofread of the Month is Tales of To-day and Other Days  (1891) by E. P. Robins (trans.). Recent collaborations: Mr. Punch's History of the Great War, The war and the future, Weird Tales Volume 31 Issue 2, Frankenstein, or the Modern Prometheus (1831 edition), Natural History, Fishes, Natural History, Reptiles, The Sikhs, Wuthering Heights (1st edition), Volume 1, The Lives of the Poets-Laureate, Siberia and the Exile System, A Motor-Flight Through France, Modern Poets and Poetry of Spain, A Vindication of the Rights of Women, Cyclopedia of Painting The current Maintenance of the Month task is Work index revision Recent collaborations: Orphans, Proposed policies and guidelines, Author page connection with Wikidata items, Help page improvement, Undated works NEW TEXTS The Fortunes of Perkin Warbeck (1857) by Mary Shelley The voice of an oppressed people (c1917) by Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk and Jaroslav František Smetánka The Sea Lady (1902) by H. G. Wells The Bacchanals (1898) by Euripides, translated by Arthur Sanders Way History of Public School Education in Arizona (1918) by Stephen Beauregard Weeks Principles of Political Economy, vol. 1 (1871) by John Stuart Mill The Secret Adversary (1922) by Agatha Christie A partial listing of some new texts (add) Works added this year HIGHLIGHTS Poetry from ancient and romantic to modern, in love and war Texts, laws, constitutions of many countries Documents from US history, including Revolution and Civil War US law: Supreme Court decisions, government documents, presidential addresses General literature: modern novels and short stories, horror stories, children’s literature, science fiction, drama Original, encyclopedic, popular articles on relativity, physics, biology, and other sciences EXPLORE WIKISOURCE Authors – Index By era By genre By nationality By type Works – Index By era By genre By subject By type Subject index WIKIMEDIA FOUNDATION Wikisource is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization which also hosts other free-content projects: Commons Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikipedia Wikiquote Wikispecies Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Meta-Wiki Imagine a world in which every single human being can freely share in the sum of all knowledge. That's our commitment. And we need your help: Contribute to our projects, or make a donation. Donations are primarily used for site maintenance and software improvements. Retrieved from "https://en.wikisource.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=7077767" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main page Discussion Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main Page Community portal Central discussion Recent changes Subject index Authors Random work Random author Random transcription Help Donate Display Options Tools What links here Related changes Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Download/print Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikipedia Wikiquote Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary In other languages Ænglisc ??????? ??????? Az?rbaycanca ?????????? ????????? ????? Brezhoneg Bosanski Català ?eština Cymraeg Dansk Deutsch ???????? Esperanto Español Eesti Euskara ????? Suomi Føroyskt Français Galego ??????? ????? Hrvatski Kreyòl ayisyen Magyar ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Íslenska Italiano ??? ????? ??? Latina Limburgs Lietuvi? ?????????? ?????? ????? More languages Nederlands Norsk ????? ?????? Polski Piemontèis Português Român? ??????? ????????? ???? ???? Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Svenska ????? ?????? ??? Türkçe ?????????? Vèneto Ti?ng Vi?t ?????? ?? Bân-lâm-gú Edit links This page was last edited on 10 November 2017, at 08:08. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Privacy policy About Wikisource Disclaimers Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
