https://ebookfriendly.com/ads-for-books-bookstores-libraries/ 21 clever ads for books, bookstores, and libraries Best 50 Lists Tips News Gifts Infographics Videos Deals Geek stuff Recommended ebooks Lists All lists Best 50 Gifts Tips & more Tips & tricks News Infographics Videos Recommended ebooks Deals Kindle deals Nook deals Apple deals Kobo deals Geek stuff All geek stuff Ebook geek problems Ebook love Cartoons Let's connect Get free updates via email Get free updates via RSS Like our page on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Tumblr Check us on Pinterest Circle us on Google+ Info About Ebook Friendly Frequently asked questions Suggest a link Contact 21 clever ads for books, bookstores, and libraries by Piotr Kowalczyk Updated on January 6, 2018 2,089 Books are all about being smart. Ads for books are difficult to create. They have to be smart, too. Books, bookshops, and libraries are an extremely interesting subject for creatives all over the world. See also: 11 gift ideas for the happy family of Amazon Fire users 15 Amazon Fire stands and holders that increase functionality The reason is simple. When done right, these ads will show how creative you are. Ad agencies make these ads for their creative portfolios, to raise their creative reputation among clients, and to submit to ad festivals. And you know what? Unlike chips or alcoholic beverages, I have nothing against making spoof ads for books, bookstores, or libraries. In the end, they are for the good cause. Some of these concepts, like Mint Vinetu bookstore, have been extremely popular on the web. It doesn’t mean people from around the world would be coming to the bookstore in Vilnius the next day. It only means people would be more willing to unplug from the internet and reach for the book. Read also 20 vintage posters about books and libraries Top article A growing collection of the vintage book and library posters that range from the late 19th century to the 50s of the 20th century. 20 most clever ads for books, bookstores, and libraries 1. Unplug with a book There have been many ad campaigns playing with book titles, but this series of ads for the Oslo bookshop Norlis is particularly timely. We are getting distracted by the digital world. The best way to get focused again is to disconnect and read a good book. Why not tell it by the books themselves? Agency: Anti, Oslo, Norway Creative team: Jason Kinsella, Erik Heisholt 2. Don’t forget to read more This brilliant ad reminds to read more books. It was made to celebrate the annual Book Day but works anytime, anywhere. Just look at the stack of post-it notes, and you’ll remember what to do. Agency: MatosGrey, São Paulo, Brazil Creative directors: Silvio Matos, Leandro Castilho Creative team: Ricardo Sarno, Filipe Medici 3. Reading shapes you These ads for Colombia’s biggest public library Luís Ángel Arango resemble great book art by Mike Stilkey, to support a tagline “reading shapes you.” Creative team: Juan Pablo Navas, Gustavo Zapata 4. Escape into a book Books have the wonderful power to take you to another world and escape daily problems the moment you open them. This benefit is perfectly visualized by this series of ads. The opened book and the Penguin logo are more than enough to get to the point. Agency: Saatchi & Saatchi, Singapore 5. Burn after reading The idea puts the book-burning message of Fahrenheit 451 to the book itself. There is one match – matching number 1 in the title. There is also a matchbook striking paper on the spine of the book. The book seems to tell its reader: You can burn me if you want. The choice is yours. Client: The Austin Creative Department Creative director: Will Chau Art director and designer: Elizabeth Perez 6. And you, why do you read? Does this campaign for Filigranes bookstore look familiar to you? The idea is originated from the fascinating, well-known book art of Isaac Salazar, who carves words into the pages of old books. Wow! Hahaha! Yeaaah! And you, why do you read? Agency: Air, Brussels, Belgium Creative directors: Grégory Ginterdaele, Marie-Laure Cliquennois Creative team: Antoinette Ribas, Philippe Fass 7. Don’t buy pirated books A clever approach to the issue or pirating books: “Every time you get a pirated book, you disrespect its author.” Agency: Mudra, Mumbai, India Creative team: Sandip Gaikwad, Srinivas Murthy 8. The right book will always keep you company The idea to literally visualize the thought “the right book will always keep you company” is what makes this campaign hilarious and memorable. Made for Steimatzky Books, working in every bed. Agency: ACW Grey Tel-Aviv, Israel Creative directors: Idan Regev, Tal Riven Creative team: Kobi Cohen, Daphne Orner 9. Because you watched The concept was developed for a Brazilian chain of bookstores, Livraria Cultura, play with a common recommendation tool used by video streaming services. This time, however, “because you watched” recommends not movies or TV shows but books. Agency: Arcos, Recife, Brazil Creative director: Carlos Renato Rocha Creative team: Eduardo Fialho, Diego Koury 10. Recycled books A self-explanatory idea for a Singapore bookstore that offers used books. Agency: Leo Burnett, Singapore Creative director: Steve Straw Creative team: Allen Ng, Cheelip 11. For real book lovers With a tag line “for real reading lovers” these funny print ads convey a simple idea: it’s time to bring books back to their original purpose. Agency: Filadélfia, Belo Horizonte, Brazil Creative director: Dan Zecchinelli Creative team: Paulo Filipe Souza, Saul Gervásio, Dan Zecchinelli 12. Life in five seconds This is a series of minimalist print ads for a brilliant book, Life in 5 Seconds, created and published by a Milan-based advertising studio H-57. In the book, over 200 stories and persons are described in a series of pictograms. Following each story won’t take you more than 5 seconds. The ads are the essence of the book. Agency: H-57 Creative Station, Italy Creative directors: Matteo Civaschi, Gianmarco Milesi Creative team: Matteo Civaschi, Anna Barisani 13. Listen to audiobooks The ad for Lydbokforlaget, a Norwegian online store with audiobooks. All you have to do it to buy an audiobook and pump up the volume. Agency: McCann, Oslo, Norway Creative team: Frank Standal Dybhavn, Geir Florhaug 14. Audiobooks – Lips Here is another example of the ad for audiobooks. Crossword bookstores visualize the words – spoken. Agency: Ogilvy & Mather, Mumbai, India Creative directors: Zenobia Pithawalla, Mihir Chanchani Creative team: Jitendra Patel, Arshad Shaikh 15. Books let you live a double life A series of imaginative print ads for Stories! bookstore show that if you read books you at the same time live two lives – and that this is happening instantly. Agency: Kolle Rebbe, Hamburg, Germany Creative directors: Sascha Hanke, Rolf Leger, Jörg Dittmann, Florian Ludwig Creative team: Jörg Dittmann, Florian Ludwig 16. Read yourself interesting You are what you read. People who read more are more interesting. If you want to be more interesting, let Pulp Books recommend you something to read. Agency: Lowe Bull, Johannesburg, South Africa Creative director: Rui Alves Creative team: Juliet Honey, Lee Naidoo 17. Print books cost the earth The ebook company from India doesn’t exist any longer, but the poster has a universal message, highlighting one of the most important benefits of ebooks. Agency: Ogilvy & Mather, Mumbai, India Creative directors: Piyush Pandey, Abhijit Avasthi, Suresh Babu, Shekhar Jha Creative team: Prasad Patil, Vikram Sood 18. A reason to switch to ebooks Another idea that explores the eco-friendliness of ebooks. Made for Sony Russia, the print ad says “An educated person reads one tree of books per year. Switch to ebooks.” Agency: Dentsu-Smart, Moscow, Russia Creative director: Mikhail Kovalev Creative team: Anastasiya Minailova, Kirill Dikov, Katerina Kovaleva, Arakel Zatikyan 19. Become someone else Why has this campaign for Mint Vinetu bookstore become extremely popular in social media? Because it creatively describes one of the most desired benefits of books: they can make the reader someone else. Pick your hero at Mint Vinetu… or any other bookstore around the world. Agency: Love Agency, Vilnius, Lithuania Creative director: Tomas Ramanauskas Creative team: Gediminas Saulis, Tomas Ramanauskas 20. A book can change your life Created for Penguin China, the campaign successfully attempted to describe one’s life in a single picture. Books can change life for the better. The illustrations were made by Bruce Xie. Analyze them in detail – and maybe you’ll find here the story of your life. Agency: Y&R, Beijing, China Creative directors: Nils Andersson, Ronnie Wu, Donghai Liu Creative team: Candy Wang, Ronnie Wu, Jianjun Geng, Nils Andersson, Gao Han, Donghai Liu 21. Almost as good as new This series of print ads for Avelar Machado bookstore, offering used books, is fantastic. You’ll just have to take a closer look at the photos to get to the point: books at Avelar Machado are almost as good as new. Agency: DraftFCB, Lisbon, Portugal Creative directors: Duarte Pinheiro de Melo, Luis Silva Dias Creative team: Ana Quina, Viton Araujo 22. Books build children A fantastic ad campaign developed by Tokyo-based ad agency Dentsu for Yokohama City Board of Education. The campaign was aimed at recruiting librarians to work in schools and educational institutions. The layouts show sculptures of children made entirely from books. The visuals are accompanied by headlines like “Read a book. See the world differently,” or “Books are more than knowledge.” Agency: Denstu, Tokyo, Japan Creative director: Miharu Mitsunaga Creative team: Miharu Matsunaga, Miyuki Ito • • • To get more posts like this, please subscribe by RSS or email. Let’s also connect on Facebook, Twitter, and Pinterest. Recent lists on Ebook Friendly: 11 gift ideas for the happy family of Amazon Fire users 15 Amazon Fire stands and holders that increase functionality Book lover’s holiday gift guide 2018 10 best Kindle Paperwhite 4 (2018) case covers available so far 15 most interesting iPad Pro 11 (2018) covers that are available so far Holiday gift guide 2018 for book lovers Here are amazing literary gifts and deals under $25 that we’ve found on Amazon and Etsy. ? Check out Like itTweet itPin itMore About Piotr Kowalczyk Founder of Ebook Friendly. Ebook enthusiast, technology geek, and self-published short story author. Info Posts Twitter Blog Mail Prev Next Before you go 10 best heavy-duty iPad case covers for kids of all ages Get the case that will help your iPad survive heavy use while allowing your kids to enjoy it comfortably and safely. by Piotr Kowalczyk Updated on October 12, 2018 The top 100 Kindle books of all time, based on annual bestseller lists The best Kindle book of all time is Stieg Larsson’s The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, followed by Unbroken (Laura Hillenbrand) and Mockingjay (Suzanne Collins). by Piotr Kowalczyk Published on May 24, 2018 Amazon reveals top 20 picks for the best book of 2018 so far The top book overall, according to Amazon editors, is Tara Westover’s memoir Educated. The list includes picks for print, Kindle, and Audible editions. by Piotr Kowalczyk Updated on June 20, 2018 Which Kindle model should I buy? The basic Kindle, the Paperwhite, the Oasis? Ask these 9 questions about yourself and you’ll know which model suits your needs the most… by Piotr Kowalczyk Updated on November 12, 2018 Featured ad 3rd-generation Amazon Echo Dot smart speaker Amazon’s most popular Alexa-controlled speaker now comes with greatly improved sound and a new design. Available in three colors, perfect for any room. Average rating: 4.2/5 Amazon $49.99 Top articles 15 most interesting iPad Pro 11 (2018) covers that are available so far Looking for a case for your new 11-inch iPad Pro released in 2018? We’ve picked up the best covers, stand cases, sleeves, and bags from Amazon, eBay, and Etsy. by Piotr Kowalczyk Published on November 6, 2018 Book lover’s holiday gift guide 2018 Here are 18 literary gifts and deals under $25 that we’ve found on Amazon and Etsy. Plus tips how to find the best deals… by Ola Kowalczyk Published on November 16, 2018 50 short books for busy people Best short books you can read in less than three hours. Novels and novellas you can’t miss, short stories, and most interesting non-fiction books. by Piotr Kowalczyk Published on June 2, 2015 50 motivating quotes about books and reading A list of most wonderful and motivating quotes about books and reading. Some of them are beautifully visualized by top designers. by Piotr Kowalczyk Updated on August 31, 2017 Keep exploring What are you looking for? Browse millions of products on Amazon.com, including bestselling books, hot new devices, and most sought-after gifts. ...or browse Amazon's popular sections Kindle books Print books Best books of 2018 Kindle e-readers Fire tablets Echo & Alexa devices Amazon Prime Kindle Unlimited Audible Please note that we may earn a small commission if you buy something on Amazon through the links seen in this box. Details. Featured ad 3rd-generation Amazon Echo Dot smart speaker Amazon’s most popular Alexa-controlled speaker now comes with greatly improved sound and a new design. Available in three colors, perfect for any room. Average rating: 4.2/5 Amazon $49.99 Popular articles 11 gift ideas for the happy family of Amazon Fire users 10 best Kindle Paperwhite 4 (2018) case covers available so far 15 most interesting iPad Pro 11 (2018) covers that are available so far Which Kindle model should I buy? 10 things to know about Amazon Kindle Paperwhite 4 Best 50 lists 50 most inspirational quotes from books 50 best literary gifts for modern-day book lovers 50 best Kindle cases and accessories to buy in 2018 50 awesome posters that encourage to read 50 awesome literary t-shirts for book lovers Latest posts December 2, 2018 11 gift ideas for the happy family of Amazon Fire users November 27, 2018 15 Amazon Fire stands and holders that increase functionality November 26, 2018 In a huge Cyber Monday sale, 500 Kindle ebooks are up to 80% off November 26, 2018 This is the best Kindle Paperwhite 4 deal you can get this Cyber Monday November 26, 2018 Cyber Week 2018 special – the best Kindle and Fire deals through December 1 November 25, 2018 Use Alexa to read Kindle books on your Amazon Fire tablet November 25, 2018 Amazon’s Cyber Monday 2018 ad reveals the biggest Kindle book deal of 2018 November 25, 2018 Here are the best Kindle deals to get on Cyber Monday 2018 On the web Top ebook deals Kindle Daily Deals Nook Daily Find & other deals Kobo Daily Deal (selected countries) Top free ebooks on Smashwords E-reader and tablet deals on eBay Top ebook news Publishing Perspectives The Digital Reader Teleread Digital Book World Good E-reader Top ebook accessories Proporta Caseable Case Crown Griffin Mobile Fun Join us for lists, tips, news and fun stuff about books and reading in digital times. 208.3K friends Facebook 147.2K Twitter 40.9K Pinterest 20.2K Read an ebook. Get one from Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Kobo or Google Play. Honorable mentions Partner sites Amazon Etsy eBay Read on any device You can read Ebook Friendly not only on a computer, but also a tablet or smartphone. No matter whether you use Facebook on the iPad or Twitter on your Android phone, our site loads fast and is easy to read. Cookie policy We are using cookies to give you the best possible experience. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more here. Popular lists 20 best new accessories, cases, and sleeves for iPad Pro 2018 tablets 16 must-have cases and accessories for your Amazon Fire HD 8 (2018) tablet 19 best iPad stands for all kinds of needs 10 premium iPad Pro sleeves hand-crafted from genuine leather and felt These literature-inspired tea blends will make a great gift for every book lover Book lover’s holiday gift guide 2018 15 most interesting iPad Pro 11 (2018) covers that are available so far 11 gift ideas for the happy family of Amazon Fire users 50 best iPad cases and accessories to buy in 2018 50 awesome posters that encourage to read Recommended topics Amazon Fire Amazon Prime Audible Black Friday 2018 Book bestsellers 2018 Cases & accessories Gift ideas iPad & iPad Pro Kindle Kindle Unlimited News Prime Day 2018 Stay connected Facebook 147.2K Twitter 40.9K Pinterest 20.2K 2010-2018 Ebook Friendly — Design by Piotr Kowalczyk We respect your privacy Our website uses cookies to recognize and analyze incoming and outgoing traffic. To learn more about browser cookies, including how to disable them, view our cookie policy. By clicking "I Accept" button below, you consent to the use of cookies unless you have disabled them in your browser's settings. I Accept
