http://www.billsmithbooks.com/outlawgalaxybooks.htm Outlaw Galaxy Books www.BillSmithBooks.com | www.OutlawGalaxy.com The Billion Worlds of Outlaw Galaxy: Free Short Stories | Books & Sample Chapters | Order Books Author Bill Smith: Bio | Star Wars Books | Blog | Newsletter | Contact Details: FAQ | Links | Tip Jar | Privacy Policy In the distant future... It is a time of legends and myths, of technology and magic, of epic struggles and journeys to the stars... A time when great heroes confront the forces of darkness... A time when adventure beckons across the Billion Worlds of Outlaw Galaxy! Outlaw Galaxy Books This is the complete library of Outlaw Galaxy books. Not sure which format to order? Go here: Ebooks and Formats. Outlaw Galaxy 3: Hunter's Truth and Other Tales Five short stories filled with the adventure and wonder of the Outlaw Galaxy universe: * "Hunter's Truth." There's more to being a bounty hunter than capturing a target. * "Just Names and Dates." A young woman gets a history lesson that she'll never forget. * "A Glorious Enterprise." A fleet of colony ships sets out to tame a planet full of riches. * "Three Simple Questions." Whatever happened to Diamond Black Joe after Outlaw Galaxy 1: Trip and the Space Pirates? * "Hopes, Dreams, Fears." Trip thinks back to the adventures of Outlaw Galaxy 1: Trip and the Space Pirates. Just 99 cents! Short story collection, 18,500 words, about 60 pages, reading time: one hour. Read a sample or order the book at: Smashwords (all formats), Amazon Kindle, Barnes & Noble Nook, Kobo or buy direct from the author. Outlaw Galaxy 2: Fugitive Among the Stars Trip and his friends are planning a simple vacation in the wilderness of Karrison when they are caught in a life and death battle against the hired guns of gangster Croll Weixx! Just $2.99! Novel, 72,500 words, 241 pages, reading time: five hours. Read a sample or order the book at: Smashwords (all formats), Amazon Kindle, Barnes & Noble Nook, Kobo or buy direct from the author. Outlaw Galaxy 1: Trip and the Space Pirates Trip dreams of someday traveling to the stars...but he never imagined that he'd be kidnapped and forced to join Diamond Black Joe's pirate gang! Just $2.99! Novel, 69,000 words, 230 pages, reading time: about four and a half hours. Read a sample or order the book at: Smashwords (all formats), Amazon Kindle, Barnes & Noble Nook, Kobo or buy direct from the author. Author's Note Bill Smith is proud to be an independent author and publisher. Rather than depending on a large publishing company, I do it all myself. It's more work, but it's also a lot more rewarding. Being indie gives me the freedom to write the stories I want to write and the ability to share them with readers around the world. As a small, independent author, every single reader and every single sale really matters. Thank you for your support! If you like my stories, please tell your friends and have them look up the Outlaw Galaxy series at Smashwords.com, their favorite ebook retailer, or at my sites, BillSmithBooks.com and OutlawGalaxy.com Outlaw Galaxy ebooks are published DRM Free (No Digital Rights Management). That means you can make backup copies, change formats and read these ebooks on any of your devices. I believe that DRM only harms honest customers while slowing pirates hardly a bit (if at all). I believe that being DRM-free is more important than the risk of "piracy." I've found that most readers are honest, decent folks who understand the importance of supporting and paying the authors they like. Readers know that authors need to be paid so they can write more stories for readers to enjoy -- authors have families to feed, too. I also understand the importance of word-of-mouth -- I discovered most of my favorite authors through libraries or by borrowing copies of books from friends -- so I offer substantial samples of Outlaw Galaxy books at all ebook vendors and at my websites, BillSmithBooks.com and OutlawGalaxy.com. Thank you for your support! Copyright Notice: BillSmithBooks, Outlaw Galaxy, Outlaw Galaxy Tales and Imagination Forge are trademarks of Bill Smith. Copyright 1998-2013 by Bill Smith. Please respect my copyright. Please don't copy, post on torrents or otherwise duplicate my stories without my express permission. Copyright infringement makes me sad.
