https://www.bookrix.com/_ebook-bealevon-nolan-hello-my-prince/ Hello My Prince by Bealevon Nolan  – download eBook - buy book BookRix Books Community Bestseller Self-Publishing Search All Search Results Books Users Groups FAQs Sign Up Now Login × Hello My Prince A Gay Romance Novel By: Bealevon Nolan User: Bealevon Nolan After coming-out to his royal family, Prince Branimir, is surprised by the support he receives. A ball is organized to give him the chance to meet an eligible bachelor. To make sure he is wanted for himself, the prince disguises himself as Max, the palace bookkeeper. When he meets a sexy hunk outside of the ballroom, the stranger gets his heart and libido racing, but the man hurries away at midnight. Eric, stepson of the Madame in the town’s male-only brothel, sneaks into the palace while the ball takes place to search for the roots of his own family. Meeting a likable man was not on his agenda but rocks his world. After talking himself out of a possible relationship, Eric goes home to face the consequence of life with his stepmother alone. Although Branimir might not look like a prince, he sure acts like one. But will his attraction be enough to overcome Eric's feelings of worthlessness? CONTENT ADVISORY: This title contains scenes of m/m intimacy and a brief scene that may be considered dub con. This eBook is available at the following stores (among others): and in many other eBook-stores Reading Sample $0.99 Romance 37135 Words Ages 18 and up 5 5 Publication Date: 10-13-2014 ISBN: 978-3-7368-4740-8 Keywords:  gay romance, gay romance, gay romance novels, gay fiction, fantasy,... Show more gay romance, gay romance, gay romance novels, gay fiction, fantasy, historical, romance, homosexual, Fairy tale, Fantasy, Cinderella, Cinderfella, Love Posts and Comments Write a new post Book options Add to Favorites     Available at Amazon and other ebook stores What happens when US Intelligence Agents take the law into their own blood-soaked hands. Steve Kohlhagen’s taut novel, told at breakneck speed, is a thrilling ride into terror, vengeance and moral ambiguity Publish your eBooks now - Self-publishing with BookRix.com Use our free eBook self-publishing services and we will distribute your eBook to all the major eBooks stores.   Obligatory for fans of dark thrillers & medical mysteries Book Recommendation Legends Of Radire ( Part One ) Legends Of Radire ( Darkness Rising ) Is part one of a fantasy fiction novel series written by Mathew Allen. Enter a world of intense magic, excitement and drama for a reading experience you will not soon forget. Travel through the wonderous world of legends of the kingdom of Radire.   Read Book Book Recommendation Bridal Sacrifice (Sacrifice, #1) For Keira, life is not a fairy tale. Growing up in a witch clan, she was nothing but a treasure, for others to take power from. Now at the age of 19, running from the wedding that was meant for her to be sacrificed, she has nowhere to go other ... Read Book About BookRix Help & Support Contact Press BookRix Code of Conduct eBooks Download Free eBooks eBook Publishing / Self Publishing Explore Books Users Groups All Books Alphabetically Follow Us BookRix © 2007 - 2018 Imprint Terms of Service Privacy Policy BookRix auf Deutsch To ensure optimal functioning, our website uses cookies. By using the website you agree to the use of cookies. More info OK Top of page New privacy policy and customized terms Hi , Welcome to BookRix! Here are two points that you must agree to: • Terms and Conditions • Privacy Policy Our privacy policy explains in detail how we use and store your data and gives you an overview: • How we collect and use personal data, • How we store and process data, • Your rights concerning personal data, • Google Analytics, • our Cookies Policy If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us at privacy@bookrix.com! Yes, I agree with the BookRix Terms of Service Yes, I agree with the BookRix Privacy Policy I agree I do not agree No Thumbnail Remove eb3632c3aec6345_1413198874.4852869511 978-3-7368-4740-8 Please choose a reason Please enter the place in the book. en en_US
