https://www.bookrix.com/_ebook-bealevon-nolan-determined/ Determined by Bealevon Nolan  – download eBook - buy book BookRix Books Community Bestseller Self-Publishing Search All Search Results Books Users Groups FAQs Sign Up Now Login × Determined Gay Romance / Fairy Tale By: Bealevon Nolan User: Bealevon Nolan Prince Liam of Broskoe will no longer bow to his mother’s outrageous orders. Because of his speech impairment, the result of a childhood illness, most people— including the queen— believe him to be a half-wit. Neglected in his upbringing, Liam has learned to take what he wants, by whatever means necessary, be it a lover, an education, or secret training as a spy. Forced into hiding, he flees to neighboring Doros and gets work in the kitchen of the castle keep. Finley, Duke of Doros, finds himself between a rock and a hard place. The King of Carsson has once again demanded an increase to the annual levy, and Doros’s resources are dwindling due to a poor harvest, worsened by early snows. Not even he, the mightiest of warriors, can stop winter from coming early, but he will not stand by and watch his people starve. Two men— two lonely hearts— meet under the strangest of circumstances. Each learns to grapple with formidable enemies: not only the forces of Mother Nature, but the darker aspects of human nature. They must overcome greed, lust, loneliness, and betrayal, as well as their own insecurities, if they are to find that one thing that makes life worth all the trouble. DETERMINED is a romance inspired by the nineteenth-century German tale Allerleirauh, written by the brothers Grimm. The most common English translation for this title is All-Kinds-of-Fur. WARNING: In addition to depictions of violent combat and death, which some readers may find objectionable, this book contains graphic sex scenes and is unsuitable for underage readers. This eBook is available at the following stores (among others): and in many other eBook-stores Reading Sample $3.49 Romance 70185 Words Ages 18 and up 6 0 Publication Date: 11-10-2015 ISBN: 978-3-7396-2257-6 Keywords:  M/M Romance, Fairy tale, Gay Romance, Bear/twink, fiction, gay, queer,... Show more M/M Romance, Fairy tale, Gay Romance, Bear/twink, fiction, gay, queer, homosexual, novel, love, fantasy, ebook, gay MM, gay fiction, queer fiction, erotica, gay erotica, homosexuality, homosexual romance, Gay for you Posts and Comments Write a new post Book options Add to Favorites     Book Recommendation 43 What happens when the dream becomes real? Shall we fear or not? This is a story of a little girl who confronts our biggest fear, the fear of Death. Will she find an answer to the eternal question? The answer is in there...  Read Book Book Recommendation Unknown (Sacrifice, #2) One murder and two cases.  That's exactly what took Amy Gill to go to prison. Now she's determined to prove everyone that she's not the killer. But it proves not to be an easy job when she suddenly started to see her boyfriend who she supposedly killed. And it's definitely isn't going ... Read Book Available at Amazon and other ebook stores What happens when US Intelligence Agents take the law into their own blood-soaked hands. Steve Kohlhagen’s taut novel, told at breakneck speed, is a thrilling ride into terror, vengeance and moral ambiguity Obligatory for fans of dark thrillers & medical mysteries Publish your eBooks now - Self-publishing with BookRix.com Use our free eBook self-publishing services and we will distribute your eBook to all the major eBooks stores.   About BookRix Help & Support Contact Press BookRix Code of Conduct eBooks Download Free eBooks eBook Publishing / Self Publishing Explore Books Users Groups All Books Alphabetically Follow Us BookRix © 2007 - 2018 Imprint Terms of Service Privacy Policy BookRix auf Deutsch To ensure optimal functioning, our website uses cookies. By using the website you agree to the use of cookies. More info OK Top of page New privacy policy and customized terms Hi , Welcome to BookRix! Here are two points that you must agree to: • Terms and Conditions • Privacy Policy Our privacy policy explains in detail how we use and store your data and gives you an overview: • How we collect and use personal data, • How we store and process data, • Your rights concerning personal data, • Google Analytics, • our Cookies Policy If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact us at privacy@bookrix.com! Yes, I agree with the BookRix Terms of Service Yes, I agree with the BookRix Privacy Policy I agree I do not agree No Thumbnail Remove eb3632c3aec6345_1447147216.1309030056 978-3-7396-2257-6 Please choose a reason Please enter the place in the book. en en_US
