https://dontspankhank.wordpress.com/ Don't Spank Hank | Just another WordPress.com site Don't Spank Hank Just another WordPress.com site Skip to content Home About Don’t Spank Hank – A FREE Online Picture Book for Children Now Three FREE Online Picture Books for Children! Posted on March 1, 2012 by davidpeters1954 Click the image to access Don’t Spank Hank, a 60-page easy reader children’s book. Click the right page corners to turn each page. Please share this book with your friends. © 2006-2012 David Peters Don’t Spank Hank is a FREE online book for children. Just click on the cover image or the links below to access it. Move your mouse cursor to a page corner then click the animated page curl to turn each page. Please share this link with your friends. Baby Hank is a tiny tornado of trouble. He doesn’t talk but his dog does, defending the boy whenever his parents threaten a spanking. 60 pages. Double spread illustrations. Beginner reading level. Read DON’T SPANK HANK for FREE Download entire SWF file – 4Mb Download entire PDF file – 9Mb See the narrated YouTube video. Click the image to access Pretty Boy Roy, a 60-page easy reader children’s book. Please share this book with your friends. © 2013 David Peters Pretty Boy Roy is the latest FREE online book for children by the author of Don’t Spank Hank. Just click on the cover image or the links below to access it. Please share this link with your friends. Everyone noticed “Pretty Boy” Roy Green as he grew up. And he grew to hate the attention. His plain sister, Jane, blossomed in her teens. Read how the lessons they learned intertwined.  56 pages. Double spread illustrations. Beginner reading level. Read PRETTY BOY ROY for FREE Download entire PDF file – 3Mb See the narrated YouTube video. Click the image to access My Mom is Taller Than My Dad, a 48-page easy reader children’s book. Please share this book with your friends. © 2013 David Peters My Mom is Taller Than My Dad is in an early stage of creation, but you can read it now online by clicking on the cover image. This book honors all parents, no matter how wonderful or weird. 48 pages. Double spread illustrations. Beginner reading level. Are your parents ordinary or odd? You might not know until you meet other kids’ parents, or read this book. It’s fun journey to see what it’s like when your parents are actors, doctors or magicians. The lesson is, appreciate what you have, even if your parents are not as ordinary as you’d like them to be. Read MY MOM IS TALLER THAN MY DAD for FREE Download PDF file – 3Mb David Peters, author and illustrator of Don’t Spank Hank, Pretty Boy Roy and My Mom is Taller Than My Dad, is available for speaking engagements, school classrooms and assemblies. Request details here. Enjoy! PS Don’t Spank Hank has just been added to the BabBooks List! Advertisements Posted in attractive, beautiful, boy and his dog, cartoon, children's book, Don't Spank Hank, easy reader, good looking, handsome, happy ending, picture book, pretty, rhyming book | Tagged attractive, beautiful, boy and his dog, cartoon, Childrens' Book, don't spank hank, easy reader, good-looking, handsome, happy ending, picture book, pretty, rhyming book | 3 Comments Search for: Recent Posts Now Three FREE Online Picture Books for Children! Recent Comments bigcommerce developm… on Now Three FREE Online Picture… davidpeters1954 on Now Three FREE Online Picture… Si je reste pdf on Now Three FREE Online Picture… Archives March 2012 Categories attractive beautiful boy and his dog cartoon children's book Don't Spank Hank easy reader good looking handsome happy ending picture book pretty rhyming book Meta Register Log in Entries RSS Comments RSS WordPress.com Advertisements Don't Spank Hank Blog at WordPress.com. Post to Cancel Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: Cookie Policy
