https://www.eapoe.org/ Edgar Allan Poe Society of Baltimore - The Life and Writings of Edgar Allan Poe     The Edgar Allan Poe Society of Baltimore The Writings of Edgar Allan Poe: The Collected Works of Edgar Allan Poe  (A comprehensive collection of e-texts of all of Poe’s prose and poetical writings, from the original sources and with multiple versions as revised during his lifetime — includes poems, tales, sketches, essays, literary criticism, letters and miscellanea. Along with individual items, several important and scholarly collections are also provided, including the Harrison and Mabbott/Pollin editions.) Information about Edgar Allan Poe: Edgar Allan Poe: A Critical Biography  (by Arthur Hobson Quinn — still the standard biography, perhaps slightly dated but sympathetic, and an impressive accumulation of what we know about Poe, done with great care and skill by someone with superb academic credentials, training and experience). (For a more condensed biography, see the “Annals” by Thomas Ollive Mabbott.) The Poe Log: A Documentary Life of Edgar Allan Poe  (by Dwight R. Thomas and David K. Jackson — a chronologically sequenced collection of statements and extracts that provides an invaluable overview of Poe’s life, rooted in historical documents) The Portraits and Daguerreotypes of Edgar Allan Poe  (by Michael J. Deas — the definitive book on Poe’s appearance and iconography, with many images now provided in full color) Poe Studies / Dark Romanticism  (Full issues, 1968-1987) A Poe Bookshelf  (A large selection of books, articles and lectures about Poe, all presented as e-text, with a few general lists of errata for more current books still under copy-right.) General Topics about Edgar Allan Poe  (Standard Reference Works, Poe’s Death, etc.) Searching  this site (via Google)   Information about Edgar Allan Poe in Baltimore: Poe in Baltimore  (with a chronology) The Baltimore Poe House and Museum The Poe Grave and Memorial  (Westminster Burying Ground) The Site of Poe’s Death  (formerly the Washington University Hospital, the Baltimore City Marine Hospital, and the Church Home and Hospital) The Moses Ezekiel Statue of Poe  (University of Baltimore, Law School Plaza)   Information About the Edgar Allan Poe Society of Baltimore: A Brief History of the Poe Society Poe Society Publications Poe Society Contact Information Poe Society Membership Information Poe Society Events  (Annual Lecture - October 2, 2016) General and Non-Poe Society Events Poe Society Archives  (University of Baltimore, Langsdale Library, Special Collections)   Other Links: Poe-related Organizations and Links ??????? “Depend upon it, after all, Thomas, Literature is the most noble of professions. In fact, it is about the only one fit for a man. For my own part, there is no seducing me from the path.” — from a letter by Edgar Allan Poe to Frederick W. Thomas (February 14, 1849). ??????? Notes: Author.............: The Edgar Allan Poe Society of Baltimore Created...........: May 1, 1997 Last update.....: November 3, 2018   ??????? Anyone is free to use information from this site for any legitimate purpose without charge as long as sources are properly noted. (Links to this site are welcome, and educational or artistic uses are encouraged. Wholesale lifting of our text or images, however, is not permitted — nor is the unacknowledged use of this material for student papers or commercial endeavors.) Schools may print and distribute any number of copies of these materials for use in class without special permission. ??????? Although substantially complete, various parts of this site are still under construction, and new material is constantly being added. Providing comprehensive and reliable information takes time, so please bear with us. (Proofreading pages, particularly historical items, requires considerable effort, and is likely to be a perpetual task.) We are currently in the process of giving the site a major rennovation to adopt XHTML (1.0 strict) and CSS. As part of these changes, we will continue to replace the white background with a colored one (to reduce the harsh appearance and improve readability on the screen) and add boxes to give pages a sense of visual continuity. (The box style of the heading changes somewhat to reflect the rank of that page in the overall hierarchy. The four main section division pages resemble the box at the top of the current page, and feature the image of Poe with his signature. Pages within each of these divisions have a slightly different style of box, and carry a navigation line at the top. The current page, referred to in navigation bars within this site as “Main Menu,” is technically the “Home” page.) Although these standards continue to evolve, it is presumed that sufficient time has passed so that they are supported in most browsers. Generally, revised pages will appear with a beige frame against a dark green background. These changes are part of an ongoing process and must be accomplished page by page. There are inevitably formatting quirks between various browsers, and although every reasonable effort has been made to support all major browsers, our pages are chiefly adapted to Firefox. ??????? Awards, &c.                   ??????? Hosting ??????? [S:1 - JAS] - Edgar Allan Poe Society of Baltimore Allan Poe
